README.md, before:

# MDB Web Server

This repository contains a small Flask application that allows uploading a
Microsoft Access `.mdb` file. After uploading, the server exports the
`Instruments` table to an Excel workbook and reports how many valid instruments
were found using the Microsoft Access ODBC driver via `pyodbc` and
`openpyxl`.

## Requirements

* Python 3.11+
* `Flask` Python package
* `pyodbc` package
* Microsoft Access ODBC driver (installed with Microsoft Office/Access)
* `openpyxl` package

You can install the Python dependencies with:

```bash
pip install flask pyodbc openpyxl
```

This application requires the Microsoft Access ODBC driver. On Windows this
driver is installed when Microsoft Access or the Access Database Engine is
present. Ensure the driver name `Microsoft Access Driver (*.mdb, *.accdb)` is
available on your system.

## Running

Start the server with:

```bash
python server.py
```

Then open your browser to [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)
and upload an `.mdb` file. After uploading, the server exports the
`Instruments` table to an Excel workbook and presents a link to download the
file, reporting how many instruments were found.

## Exporting Instrument Data

The `export_instruments.py` script allows exporting selected columns from the
`Instruments` table of an MDB file. It filters rows where the `Type` column is
`IO` **and where the `Tag` column is not blank**. The script writes the columns
`ID`, `Tag`, `FullDescription`, `EGULow`, `EGUHigh`, `RawLow`, `RawHigh` and several
alarm/warning fields to an Excel workbook. The additional columns are `HALM_EN`,
`HALM_SP`, `HALM_DB`, `HALM_DLY`, `HWARN_EN`, `HWARN_SP`, `HWARN_DB`,
`HWARN_DLY`, `LALM_EN`, `LALM_SP`, `LALM_DB`, `LALM_DLY`, `LWARN_EN`,
`LWARN_SP`, `LWARN_DB`, and `LWARN_DLY`.

Usage:

```bash
python export_instruments.py path/to/database.mdb
```

After running, the script prompts for the destination path of the Excel file.

## Updating an MDB from Excel

The web server also provides a page at `/import` that allows uploading an
existing MDB file together with an Excel workbook generated by this program.
The server verifies that each sheet has the same column layout, ensures each
row's `ID` and `Tag` already exist in the database, and only updates fields that
have changed. After the update you can download the modified MDB file.

Commit message:

Add modern UI and navigation between import/export

README.md, after:

# MDB Web Server

This repository contains a small Flask application that allows uploading a
Microsoft Access `.mdb` file. After uploading, the server exports the
`Instruments` table to an Excel workbook and reports how many valid instruments
were found using the Microsoft Access ODBC driver via `pyodbc` and
`openpyxl`.

## Requirements

* Python 3.11+
* `Flask` Python package
* `pyodbc` package
* Microsoft Access ODBC driver (installed with Microsoft Office/Access)
* `openpyxl` package

You can install the Python dependencies with:

```bash
pip install flask pyodbc openpyxl
```

This application requires the Microsoft Access ODBC driver. On Windows this
driver is installed when Microsoft Access or the Access Database Engine is
present. Ensure the driver name `Microsoft Access Driver (*.mdb, *.accdb)` is
available on your system.

## Running

Start the server with:

```bash
python server.py
```

Then open your browser to [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000).
You'll see a simple home page where you can choose to export instruments to
Excel or update an MDB from an exported Excel workbook. Selecting **Export
Instruments** presents a form to upload an `.mdb` file. After uploading, the
server exports the `Instruments` table to an Excel workbook and provides a link
to download it, reporting how many instruments were found.

## Exporting Instrument Data

The `export_instruments.py` script allows exporting selected columns from the
`Instruments` table of an MDB file. It filters rows where the `Type` column is
`IO` **and where the `Tag` column is not blank**. The script writes the columns
`ID`, `Tag`, `FullDescription`, `EGULow`, `EGUHigh`, `RawLow`, `RawHigh` and several
alarm/warning fields to an Excel workbook. The additional columns are `HALM_EN`,
`HALM_SP`, `HALM_DB`, `HALM_DLY`, `HWARN_EN`, `HWARN_SP`, `HWARN_DB`,
`HWARN_DLY`, `LALM_EN`, `LALM_SP`, `LALM_DB`, `LALM_DLY`, `LWARN_EN`,
`LWARN_SP`, `LWARN_DB`, and `LWARN_DLY`.

Usage:

```bash
python export_instruments.py path/to/database.mdb
```

After running, the script prompts for the destination path of the Excel file.

## Updating an MDB from Excel

From the home page choose **Update From Excel** or visit `/import` directly.
Upload an existing MDB file together with an Excel workbook generated by this
program. The server verifies that each sheet has the same column layout,
ensures each row's `ID` and `Tag` already exist in the database, and only
updates fields that have changed. After the update you can download the
modified MDB file.
